The other bit that I was going to show is just a few minor features of SCSS.
So here is the very simple CSS that we have for the application.
Most of the styling for the todomvc application is provided by some
external style sheets that we don't necessarily care about.
Those are actually located here in the base and index style sheets.
All of the different implementations of todomvc,
of which there are many by the way, I don't know if I called that out yesterday,
but if you're interested in seeing like the same application
implemented across multiple frameworks, you can head out todomvc.
com and kind of compare and contrast different approaches to this.
So is this the place where I got the code if you
haven't navigated out there already.
So in our case, we actually don't have a lot of custom CSS yet,
but some of the features that Sass provides you that you
wouldn't necessarily have otherwise are the ability to create
variables and mixins and to nest your CSS,
which is actually one of the things that I find most useful.
So, if our server --- let's go ahead and run our server.
Oh, come on now.
Unexpected character.
Oh yeah, I didn't back out the JavaScript changes, so let's do that.
Okay, super!
Alright, so here's our todo application.
As you can see,
I was spamming in quite a few entries into the todo list earlier on.
But when I'm writing my CSS code,
I'm usually kind of concerned about the structure of my HTML.
So I have this section where all of my todos are,
I have this unordered list with all my todos,
and I'm use to being able to write HTML in a nice nested structure like this,
and Sass lets me write CSS in that nested structure as well.
So in here,
let's say I wanted to add some styling to the list items in my main class.
So,
I can come in here and write a selector for the main div
much like you would in Vanilla CSS,
and what I could do if I wanted to target the list items of this list,
I could write a selector that went something like this.
So for the unordered, excuse me, the unordered list items,
these are the CSS classes I would like to apply.
But that's not super dry because if I also wanted to
style the unordered list itself,
I'd have to another CSS declaration up there to do that.
So one of the nice things that you can do in Sass is nest those declarations.
So, within the main div I'm going to add some styles to the ul.
Let's say --- this might break the layout,
but I'll add a nice big padding all the way around the unordered list,
and then for the list items I'm going to change the font-style
obviously to Comic Sans MS to class it up a little bit.
So our tooling found the changes to the Sass,
automatically recompiled, and if I come back out here,
looks like I needed to be more specific with my list item styling,
but I've got my big padding around the ul.
Obviously, we could just do that.
I won't actually fix it.
I just saw a tweet that important is kind of like
importing ants --- Importing ants.
--- into CSS.
In fact, it must not be li, like there are probably --- oh,
there's another div in here called the view and an input.
And oh, it's a label, so I don't know if it's cascading down that far.
So, maybe if I did the label.
I just have to see it in Comic Sans now.
I have to get my fix.
Actually, it's because of your CSS properties use font-style.
Font-family, oh yeah.
There we go.
Ooh there we go, much better, yes.
So,
that's one of my favorite features is that you can keep your
CSS much drier by nesting it in this way.
And let's say now that we've decided that Comic Sans is
clearly the best font for this application,
and we want to apply it globally,
we can create a variable called appFont or something like that
and essentially set that equal to this string.
So we can use this Comic Sans MS font-family declaration,
and we can use that variable here as the appFont.
We could also say for our, I believe it's an h1, I'll double check.
Let's say for the h1 in our application I want to do the same thing.
I want to use the appFont font-family.
So if I come out here and refresh, that is actually quite a bit better.
I think they should've done that to begin with.
So a few bits there are really useful.
And let's say like your CSS is getting a little crazy.
You feel the need to break it up a little bit.
If you want to import CSS into regular CSS style sheets,
there's one and only one place you can do that,
which is at the top of the CSS file,
and you can't do that nested within other CSS declarations.
But what we can do with Sass is move this content
out to something called a partial,
which by convention is a file --- as a file name,
we prefix it with an underscore.
We could call this _main.
scss.
And here in that Sass file I can have these declarations.
And not necessarily that you would structure it in this way,
but now rather than declaring them in line,
I can actually include the main.
scss.
Is that underscoring it?
The underscore is conventional, it denotes a Sass file as a partial,
and when you do the include,
like you don't actually need to include the underscore.
Include expected identifier was.
What?
Oh, you know what?
I think I just goofed this up.
I don't think I need the parentheses.
I think I can just do that.
Or maybe do I not even need that?
I might have to --- what's that?
Is it include or import?
I thought it was include, and I think I do need the quotes.
Yeah, I think it might be import.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, it's the danger of doing it live that's for sure.
So now if I refresh my page, I still have my same stylings there.
So, you can include like nested CSS in this way as well.
So basically it gives your application CSS an entirely new
bag of tricks that it didn't have before.
What is it that's actually monitoring the Sass files and compiling it to CSS?
Yeah, right on.
So, in our Gruntfile,
the default task which runs like the development app server is this one,
the default task,
and what's going to do is it's initially going to compile our Sass
and run our JavaScript code through Browserify,
like right away when we launch it,
and then it's going to launch this task concurrent:dev,
and that's going to do two things.
It's going launch two tasks, one of which is nodemon,
which is going to watch for changes to our server-side JavaScript,
and the other is this guy.
Where is concurrent?
Where did I define that?
Here we go.
So, here's were we defined like the tasks that we want to run concurrently.
One of them is watch,
which is going to recompile our Sass in our front-end JavaScript,
and then the other one is nodemon.
So,
it's really Grunt that's in the background watching
for changes to your Sass files.
Yeah, it's a Grunt plugin called watch.
It's one of the --- it's in the contrib package here.
So this watch plugin has that capability. It can run tasks when a certain condition is true.